# TP_MPAR


This project aims to provide a Python program capable of parsing Markov chains and Markov Decision Processes (MDP) models defined using a specific grammar. The program then constructs a corresponding data structure and allows for simulating (executing) these models. Additionally, it offers textual and graphical output as needed.

## Project Contents

The project is organized as follows:

1. **gramParser.py**: This file contains the Python code for the parser. It analyzes Markov chains and MDP models according to the specified grammar.

2. **gramListener.py**: This file can be used for **Listener** with parser `Antlr4`. When iterating all the grammar tree, Listener can apply its methods to every node.

3. **gramLexer.py**: As a lexer, it is responsible for breaking the input text into tokens. Before the input is processed by the parser, the lexical analyzer preprocesses the input text and breaks it down into the smallest units that the parser can understand.

4. **mdp.py**: This file imports the lexer and parser generated by antlr4 and defines a number of actions to perform when traversing the syntax tree generated by the input model. Meanwhile, it can generate textual and graphical output. 

5. **file.mdp**: Files with the .mdp suffix are used to build MDP and DTMC models using special syntax.

## Usage

To use this program, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local system.
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/AdrienGaill/TP_MPAR.git
   ```

2. Ensure you have Python installed on your system.

3. In order to use `gramLexer` and `gramListener`, run the following operation.
   ```
   antlr4 -Dlanguage=Python3 gram.g4
   ```

4. The input pattern is passed through standard command line input or via a text file using the following command:
   ```
   python mdp.py < fichier
   ```

## Testing

It's essential to test the correctness of imported models. Here are some points to check:

Here we import `check_validity` to check the occurence of given states and actions and `check_reachability` to check the reachability of each state.

Meanwhile, `enterDefstates`, `enterDefactions`, `enterTransact` and `enterTransnoact` can be used to see the textual description of each state and action visited.

`launch_server_DTMC` and `launch_server_MDP` can be executed to give a graphical representation.

The correctness of the model can be tested through text, or the generated dynamic graphics can be used to visualize the state transfer process to facilitate checking the correctness of the model.

## Author

This project was created by **Adrien Gaillard** and **Zhenyu Pu**


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

---
This README document provides detailed instructions on the usage and setup of the parser and simulator for Markov chains and MDP models in Python. Use it as a guide to make the most out of this project.